README.md, before:

# Angels Among Us

## Overview

Angels Among Us's mission is to save animals from shelters and owner surrenders. The purpose of this tool is to decouple the placement process of foster animals from the nonprofit's current platform, allowing quicker and improved matching of fosters to volunteers.

## Repo Walkthrough

Visit [this](https://www.notion.so/gtbitsofgood/Repo-Walkthrough-64fad02c388449bfafddede9870ca190) Notion page.

## Setup

### Using Docker (recommended)

> For those that use WSL on Windows, there are known bugs that can prevent the web app from connecting to your Mongo database. It is strongly encouraged that you set up the repository using Docker.

1. Download [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass#compass) to view your database documents in a GUI.

2. Run `yarn` in the root directory of the repository. These dependencies are used to automatically run some useful scripts when you commit your code. If you get an error specifying that the command is not found, install yarn:

   ```sh
   npm install --global yarn
   ```

   then attempt `yarn` again.

3. Acquire the `.env` file by navigating to the `web` directory and running:

   ```zsh
   yarn secrets
   ```

   You will need to obtain a password from your engineering leadership to complete this process. If you are on Windows, contact your engineering leadership to manually paste the text content into an `.env` file into the `web` directory.

4. Boot up the Docker containers:

   ```zsh
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

   This may take a while on your first build.

   To stop your Docker containers and remove their processes, run:

   ```zsh
   docker-compose down
   ```

   You can see currently running containers with `docker ps -a`.

5. Once everything has spun up successfully, connect to your database on MongoDB compass with the connection URL:

   ```zsh
   mongodb://localhost:30001/?directConnection=true
   ```

   Keep in mind that our Docker instance of MongoDB runs on a different port (30001) to prevent collisions with a local instance of MongoDB, if you have that installed (which runs on 27017 by default).

6. Add a document to the `accounts` collection, with email and role fields like this:

   ```js
    {
      _id: ...,
      email: "YOUR_EMAIL_HERE",
      role: "admin"
    }
   ```

   The value of the email field should be the email address you will be logging in with via gmail. You have now added yourself as a valid account with an admin role.

7. Navigate to `localhost:3000` using your web browser. Click "Sign in with Google" and log into using the email you used to make the `account` document.

### Manual setup

1. Install [MongoDB Community Server](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/administration/install-community/) to host a local instance of MongoDB. Download [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass#compass) to view the state of your database using a GUI.

2. Run `yarn` in the root directory of the repository. If you get an error specifying that the command is not found, install yarn:

   ```zsh
   npm install --global yarn
   ```

   then attempt `yarn` again.

   Run the following commands.

   ```zsh
   cd web
   yarn
   ```

   You have now installed all the dependencies required to run the project.

3. Acquire the `.env` file by navigating to the `web` directory and running:

   ```zsh
   yarn secrets
   ```

   You will need to obtain a password from your engineering leadership to complete this process. If you are on Windows, contact your engineering leadership to manually paste the text content into an `.env` file into the `web` directory.

4. Connect to your MongoDB database using MongoDB compass. Use the connection URL:

   ```zsh
   mongodb://localhost:27017/
   ```

   Create a document within the `accounts` collection with the fields:

   ```js
    {
      _id: ...,
      email: "YOUR_EMAIL_HERE",
      role: "admin"
    }
   ```

   The value of the email field should be the email address you will be logging in with via gmail. You have now added yourself as a valid account with an admin role.

5. Configure MongoDB session transactions using [this](https://www.notion.so/gtbitsofgood/MongoDB-Transactions-Setup-42d280055f3b45beb6cea350882ab7b9?pvs=4) Notion doc.

6. Start the Next.js development server by running:

   ```zsh
   yarn dev
   ```

   in the `web` directory.

7. Navigate to `localhost:3000` using your web browser. Click "Sign in with Google" and log into using the email you used to make the `account` document.

## Testing

We use [jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) for testing. See the `web/__tests__` directory for our unit and integration tests. Currently, our tests are mostly limited to testing backend functionality.

To run all test suites, navigate to the `web` directory and run `yarn jest`. To generate a coverage report, run:

```zsh
yarn jest --coverage --collectCoverageFrom='./**/*.{ts,tsx}'
```

## Code Formatting

Install and enable [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode) in VSCode. This repository is also configured with a pre-commit hook that automatically formats any code you commit to ensure formatting consistency throughout the codebase.

Commit message:

chore: update docker env to pipe bitwarden creds

README.md, after:

# Angels Among Us

## Overview

Angels Among Us's mission is to save animals from shelters and owner surrenders. The purpose of this tool is to decouple the placement process of foster animals from the nonprofit's current platform, allowing quicker and improved matching of fosters to volunteers.

## Repo Walkthrough

Visit [this](https://www.notion.so/gtbitsofgood/Repo-Walkthrough-64fad02c388449bfafddede9870ca190) Notion page.

## Setup

### Using Docker (recommended)

> For those that use WSL on Windows, there are known bugs that can prevent the web app from connecting to your Mongo database. It is strongly encouraged that you set up the repository using Docker.

1. Download [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass#compass) to view your database documents in a GUI.

2. Obtain the Bitwarden password from your EM. Create a file named `bitwarden.env` in the root directory of the respository and fill it with the following contents:

   ```zsh
   BW_PASSWORD=<provided bitwarden password>
   ```

   This only needs to be done on your first run. After that, **you should delete the file from your repository to avoid accidentally pushing it to GitHub.**

3. Boot up the Docker containers:

   ```zsh
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

   This may take a while on your first build.

   To stop your Docker containers and remove their processes, run:

   ```zsh
   docker-compose down
   ```

   You can see currently running containers with `docker ps -a`.

4. Once everything has spun up successfully, connect to your database on MongoDB compass with the connection URL:

   ```zsh
   mongodb://localhost:30001/?directConnection=true
   ```

   Keep in mind that our Docker instance of MongoDB runs on a different port (30001) to prevent collisions with a local instance of MongoDB, if you have that installed (which runs on 27017 by default).

5. Add a document to the `accounts` collection, with email and role fields like this:

   ```js
    {
      _id: ...,
      email: "YOUR_EMAIL_HERE",
      role: "admin"
    }
   ```

   The value of the email field should be the email address you will be logging in with via gmail. You have now added yourself as a valid account with an admin role.

6. Navigate to `localhost:3000` using your web browser. Click "Sign in with Google" and log into using the email you used to make the `account` document.

If you make any changes to the packages, you may need to rebuild the images. To do this, append --build to the above docker compose up command.

The Dockerized application will have live-reloading of changes made on the host machine.

Note: On linux-based operating systems, if you come across an entrypoint permission error (i.e. `process: exec: "./entrypoint.sh": permission denied: unknown`), run `chmod +x ./entrypoint.sh` to make the shell file an executable.

Windows Users: If you come across this error `exec ./entrypoint.sh: no such file or directory` when running the docker compose command, please follow this [Stackoverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40452508/docker-error-on-an-entrypoint-script-no-such-file-or-directory) to fix it.

### Manual setup

1. Install [MongoDB Community Server](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/administration/install-community/) to host a local instance of MongoDB. Download [MongoDB Compass](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass#compass) to view the state of your database using a GUI.

2. Run `yarn` in the root directory of the repository. If you get an error specifying that the command is not found, install yarn:

   ```zsh
   npm install --global yarn
   ```

   then attempt `yarn` again.

   Run the following commands.

   ```zsh
   cd web
   yarn
   ```

   You have now installed all the dependencies required to run the project.

3. Acquire the `.env` file by navigating to the `web` directory and running the following based on your OS:

   ```zsh
   yarn secrets:linux # MacOS/Linux
   yarn secrets:windows # Windows
   ```

   You will need to obtain a password from your engineering leadership to complete this process.

4. Connect to your MongoDB database using MongoDB compass. Use the connection URL:

   ```zsh
   mongodb://localhost:27017/
   ```

   Create a document within the `accounts` collection with the fields:

   ```js
    {
      _id: ...,
      email: "YOUR_EMAIL_HERE",
      role: "admin"
    }
   ```

   The value of the email field should be the email address you will be logging in with via gmail. You have now added yourself as a valid account with an admin role.

5. Configure MongoDB session transactions using [this](https://www.notion.so/gtbitsofgood/MongoDB-Transactions-Setup-42d280055f3b45beb6cea350882ab7b9?pvs=4) Notion doc.

6. Start the Next.js development server by running:

   ```zsh
   yarn dev
   ```

   in the `web` directory.

7. Navigate to `localhost:3000` using your web browser. Click "Sign in with Google" and log into using the email you used to make the `account` document.

## Testing

We use [jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started) for testing. See the `web/__tests__` directory for our unit and integration tests. Currently, our tests are mostly limited to testing backend functionality.

To run all test suites, navigate to the `web` directory and run `yarn jest`. To generate a coverage report, run:

```zsh
yarn jest --coverage --collectCoverageFrom='./**/*.{ts,tsx}'
```

## Code Formatting

Install and enable [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode) in VSCode. This repository is also configured with a pre-commit hook that automatically formats any code you commit to ensure formatting consistency throughout the codebase.
